---
tags: meeting
description: 
---

# meeting-nav-fund-hackathon

:::info
**Live notes on hackmd**: https://hackmd.io/@rcm-coop/ryBPE9hbel

:::spoiler **Expand for Contents**
[TOC]
:::

---
:::spoiler Expand for formatting template
```
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
# Meeting yyyy-mm-dd
## Attendees
## Apologies
## Notes
<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->
```
:::

==Actions are highlighted yellow==

<!-- %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% -->


# Meeting 2025-05-23

## Attendees
* Cass
* Emma
* Oscar
* Patricia
* Malvika

### Apologies
- 

## Notes
### Call info
- [Call](https://os.nav.fund/meeting-fund/)
- Scope:
    > Define a solvable problem in Open Science â€” Identify the key obstacles that, once addressed, could significantly advance the field
    > Launch or unblock a real project (e.g., a shared data resource, open-source tool, policy change, or pilot experiment) shortly after the meeting adjourns
    > Create opportunities for new people to apply and participate, bringing fresh perspectives
    > Move away from traditional formats by avoiding all-day talks and passive participation
    > Choose locations where there are not additional distractions that limit focused collaboration
    > problems where you can take meaningful next steps by the end of your two to three-day meeting.
- Limits:
    - $100k
    - LOI submitted 15th June
    - Full proposals due 22nd/29th June
    - 2-3 day meeting. Must be in-person
    - Events must take place in 2025

- Requirements:
    - LOI (2 page), including:
    - Executive summary
    - State of the field (where is it stuck, how will you overcome)
    - Community impact
    - Participants
    - Budget

### Discussion
- "Move away form all day formats"
    - CW workshop as a potential workshop
        - Active participation
        - Keynotes -> lightning -> discussion -> hackday
        - Speedblog
            - Sustainable into TTW
        - Facilitation is excellent

    - Lorentz
        - https://openspaceworld.org/wp2/what-is/
    - [ORCA](https://www.orcaopen.org)
        - Defined 3 areas they wanted to work on, then people could talk about anything in scope
        - 2d was short
    - TTW
        - Bookdash - lots happens first
            - onboarding
            - training in facilitation
            - "Flipped-classroom"
                - Sometimes people don't do the advance work
                - Make sure the pre-work is facilitated
    - OLS
        - Experiental learning
        - Taking work into your context
#### What we work on
- What do we want to unblock?
    - Data science practitioner/professionals
    - Launch RCM coop
- Maybe wider that just Coop
    - PRISM-type people
    - Catalyst to bring these different groups of professionals together
    - Specific hidden contributions to open science work
        - e.g. data stewards as essential 
            - These as the key contributors to things that can/should be measured

- How can we make it different from hiddenREF?
    - Community sustainabilty contributions?
    - Understanding the investment in community?
        - Maybe connected to software sustinability
    - Recently focused on non-traditional outputs cf roles
        - 

- How do we measure the ROI of community work?
    - there is a framework in industry for this
        - https://www.feverbee.com/roi/

- Why this call (and not UKRI RTP?)?
    - Bringing new people in
        - CSCCE?
    - How do we spin this as a problem for open science, not just a UK focus
    - Nav Fund has funded RSE-type groups (USRSE)
    - "community" is well understood in the US
    - Nav Fund has shared interests with AI
    - ORCA team may be on the review panel
    - We should be authentic and specific

- concrete output a tool or system to track open contributions across platforms?
    - We are still in the "working out what to measure" phase
        - e.g.https://barcelona-declaration.org
        - https://open-science-monitoring.org
    - Monitoring health of github repositories

- Different parts of open science
    - monitoring
    - community sustainability/health
    - impact assessment

- Why are we the group to solve this?

- Community intelligence
    - Tracking to understand sustainbilty
    - How do we track
    - what do we track
    - what is the impact
    - How do we recognise the people who do this work (all-contributors, CRediT)
    - Open science happens at the community level
        - How the RSE community has created change
    - A problem for open science is that if you don't recognise this work, it isn't sustainable

- Tieing with SSI
    - SSI set up infrastructure to TTW and OLS
    - SSI is giving focus to community and ethical work - in scope
        - Make sure though we interantionalise this by inviting international SSI-equivalent

- Sustainable community
    - Invite maintainers
    - CRediT is not particularly community led - they didn't involve the community to develop and maintain.

- Narrow down what we are trying to build at the end

- Many open science orgs have community managers
    - Everything OS which doesn't come out of industry/publishers is community run, and they have community managers!
        - What do they need? Advocacy pack?
            - Launch RCM as a role which should be everywhere
        - Potentail conversation areas
            - Community impact stories
                - Podcast
            - Measuring community health
            - Professionalising RCM (Theory of Change)
            - Literature review

MS:
- Focus: Community Sustainability
    - Problem statement: Known challenge in open science, under-recognised, underpaid
- Output: RCM Coop - year of cooperative
- Invite: Intentional inclusion of global majority community leaders (via OLS) "undoing the harm of global north open science focus"
- Connect well with SSI
    - OLS's Seeds to Systems
    - Turing Way - resource sustainability
- International partners to think about?
    - ORCA
    - Anelda?
    - let's do lanscape
- Let people choose which area people want to focus and grow

### Next Steps
- Use RCM Coop co-working to draft
    - async

- Overall story:
    - Communities are essential for open science, and the work of sustaining communities is not properly recognised
    - Invite comment from community mangers to find out what they need

Actions:
- MS: talk to ORCA about their last event 
- CGVP: set up draft 
- OS: talk to Neil





